>> Mathew DesLauriers: So I just wanted
to get us started which a simple scene.
Just like a cube type scene,
just to explain some of the basics and
then we're gonna start to go from there.
Just like we did in the first part of this
workshop, we're gonna start small and
we're gonna iterate and try and
iteratively improve our outputs.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So I'm just gonna
go back to my desktop in my terminal, and
I'll go back to my folder where
I saved my sketches so far.
So I'll just show that, so
we have our sketch from the morning,
I'm gonna keep that.
I don't wanna lose our
sketch in the morning, or
in the first part of the workshop.
So I'm gonna create a new sketch and
let's call it Web GL,
you can call it whatever you like but
I'm gonna call mine Web GL.
And so, when I'm in my folder here in the
terminal, again we just do canvas-sketch.
And we can call our file whatever we want,
and
then in this case I'm calling it webgl.js,
JavaScript file.
And then we do new --new, and
then other thing we're gonna do here is
instead of starting with a 2D art work or
2D sketch, we're gonna start
with a new three.js sketch.
So, we do --template = 3, just like that,
and what this will do
is it's gonna scaffold
out a three.js sort of template.
That is, instead of just using 2D,
it's actually using three.js,
and it will install that,
and it'll start running.
And if we copy this link, or
if we just open local host in the browser,
so you can localhost 9966,
just make sure that the link that's
here is the same port number, 9966.
If you have it open in another terminal
it might be 9967 just be mindful of that.
And also, one thing I didn't
mention earlier on today is that,
if you're making an experience that you
wanna test on desktop and on mobile,
you just need to copy this link,
this local IP address.
As long as your mobile is on
the same wireless as your desktop,
you can view the same scene, in the same
sort of setup, on your mobile device.
And so here we go, I've opened it up and
now I'm just gonna open my terminal,
or sorry my code editor.
I'm just gonna open this
file that we just created.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So I'll give
you a second to just open that, and
you'll see on the browser it's now
working with a full screen artwork,
or scene I guess you could say.
It's not really an artwork yet,
and you can click and
drag to move around the scene.
And so I'll just walk you through what's
going on in this actual code example.
This is what's given to us by
a basic three.js template, and
it's maybe more than we need or
maybe not enough,
it depends on what you're
trying to build with three.js.
And this is of course just one
way of working with three.js, but
this is the way that hopefully
we're gonna be working today.
It will allow us to do
some interesting stuff, so
again we start with Canvas Sketch.
We require that,
the next thing we're doing is we're
requiring three.js which is the library.
And we don't need to install this because
when we ran our terminal command,
and we used Canvas Sketch with template 3,
you'll notice it actual was
installing this dependency.
So it installed it for
us automatically in this case, but
it did install it using the same technique
of using NPM Install, basically.
So it will appear in your package JSON and
in your Node modules.
And we're using this thing here,
global.THREE = require('three');.
And the reason we're doing that is because
some of three.js's code just assumes that
three.js, the variable, the three
variable, exists on the window scope.
So we're just getting it on the global or
the window scope, we're just assigning it
as soon as we require it, that's kind
of just a weird, annoying, hacky thing.
But it's because this three.js library was
created long before things like WebPack,
or things like modules, and
things like Node.js modularity.
And we're trying to sort of fit that into
our way of creating very modular and
individual pieces of code, so
that's just something you cut and paste.
Then after you require three,
you can require any of its examples, so
one thing I didn't bring up,
is if you go to three.js.org/examples.
You'll actually see a whole
ton of code examples,
all of them are just using plain HTML and
Canvas, so
they're not even using Canvas Sketch,
you don't need Canvas Sketch.
But you can see there's just
a bit more boilerplate,
things like copy-pasting script tags,
or something like that.
But generally,
the code is gonna be very similar,
there's gonna be a lot of similarities,
so it's not that different.
So there's lots of examples here,
definitely worth spending some time just
to browse through them
cuz they're really cool.
And all the code is open source, so
I'm going back to this code here.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So then we have
our setting, it's kinda like the morning
except this is the settings for
our sketch instead of setting a dimension.
Earlier we were setting
dimensions with height,
we don't need to do that
if we don't want to.
If you don't specify it then the Canvas
just gonna be resized to this size of
the browser.
Here we say animate = true,
which basically just means start
canvas sketch shop with a render loop.
It's gonna be 60 frames per second so it's
going to be just kind of what we need for
three.js stuff.
And then here these two lines just make
sure that when we're setting up our canvas
sketch we make sure that we ask for
a Web GL context.
Rather than a 2D context which is
what we had in the morning, and
this line is just one that
I tend to include a lot
is to specify antialiusing when
we create our web GL canvas.
And that just means it's gonna
give us a nice soft edge,
and if we didn't have that true,
if we had left that out.
You might notice a bit of a jagged
edge on the end of the cube,
it's very hard to see on the screen but
if you save this as an image or a video,
that's where it start to
become more noticeable.
So just in general,
you wanna use this antialius true as
a context flag when you're
creating your web GL context.
It will make it a bit slower to render but
it's not usually a big deal.
And then we go into our
actual sketch function,
just like this morning we have a bunch
of stuff inside our sketch function, and
then we're returning something.
And I'll just walk you through
quickly what's going on, just so
we're on he same page.
So we have a render, this is
the three.js thing that sort of puts
everything together and
makes an image out of it.
We have this clear color which
is the background color,
you can try tweaking this.
You can set it to another color, and
then you have this second
parameter which is the alpha.
And if you set it to zero it means
the background is gonna be transparent.
You can even test this by clicking
your canvas and exporting it, Cmd + S,
looking in your downloads folder, and
it should be a transparent image.
So that's one way of getting
a transparent background, but
we're gonna keep it as black for
now, and then we have a camera.
Just like we were saying earlier,
this is using a perspective camera.
So it's trying to sort of simulate this
real way of looking at things that we
are familiar with.
The first argument here for the camera is
the field of view, which is in degrees.
And if you tweak that value,
you're gonna see that the camera's going
to start looking a little different.
It's gonna basically pull the field of
view in or out, and so I like to use it
just leave it at 45 more some time and
then you can tweak it later if you want.
These are the arguments,
we won't get to end of them,
this is aspect ratio which we're gonna
change later on when the canvass resizes.
And then this is the near and
far values and
this is basically just saying
how far away can we see a scene.
So if you've ever played a video game
where there's mountains in the very far
distance, and the mountains just
disappear because they're too far away.
That's the far plane and
if you're in a big open world and
you're making a video game in a big open
world you might need a really big number.
To say that there's mountains that
are hundreds of meters away from me.
Or you might need a really small number
if your game is entirely within the small
room or something like that, you don't
need a thousand meters away from you.
But we don't really need to think too,
too much about that today,
that's a bit more of an advanced topic,
all right.
And then we're setting the, we're gonna
chat a bit more about positioning in
a second, but this is just so
you know what's going on.
We're setting the position of the camera
to some xyz, so whenever we're talking
about position, or rotation, or a scale in
three.js, it's always in three dimensions.
It's xyz instead of just x and y,
and we'll talk in a second about what that
means, but for now just bear with me.
So we set the position, you can try
just tweaking these numbers, and
you'll see maybe that it's
gonna move around the scene.
So, if you were to set this to 00,
-4, now we're kind of on
the same eye level as this cube.
And if we were to set it to 000,
we're not gonna see anything,
cuz we're sort of colliding with the cube,
so.
We wanna set it to some value like 22 or
444 or
something like that play around with it,
see what works.
This one just says make our camera
look at the center of the world, and
then we have a controller setup.
This is what's giving us
our Mouse interaction,
we have our scene which remember is
sort of everything all together.
And we create a scene and
then we add objects into our scene,
and so we start with the mesh.
And remember that this mesh that
we're adding into our scene is
a combination of geometry and material.
So it's a combination of one box geometry
and one MeshPhysicalMaterial, or
this is actually the same
as MeshStandardMaterial,
it's basically the same thing for
our purposes.
Basically just a material that
is reacting to light, and so
it's changing depending on where
the lights are in this scene.
We'll get into this sort
of stuff a little later,
but then you'll see some lights
are being added to the scene.
We can come back to this later on, but
for now you can just take a look at it.
Maybe tweak some numbers if you want
to get a sense of what's going on.
And then here,
instead of returning your render function,
which is what we had before,
and with the 2D stuff.
Now we want to have a bit more
control over the actual sketch.
So we wanna have a something triggered
every time the browsers resized, so
this is why we're returning an object
instead of just a function.
So our object has a resize function,
here's where every time this
browsers resized, this method
will be called by Canvas Sketch.
And in this method we just set
up our camera positioning and
camera sort of aspect ratio, and
we set up our size of the renderer.
And then this is our
actual render function,
just like we had earlier in the workshop.
You can tweak this stuff here, and
you can get a sense of what's going on.
You'll see that every time we render,
we're setting the rotation of the cube
to time times this number here.
And so time is a property that's
in seconds, starting at zero,
going up to however many seconds
you're looking at this for.
And if we were just to set the rotation
to y, sorry, the rotation to time,
you're gonna end up with a spinning cube.
If you multiply it by some big number,
it's gonna spin much faster, and
if you multiply it by a low number,
it'll spin much slower.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And then you have
controls update, render, you're rendering.
And lastly, we're just disposing of
the scene whenever it's done with it,
so that's kinda the template,
it's a lot of stuff all in one file.
But we're gonna try and
whittle it down and we're gonna try and
do something a bit more
interesting than just a cube.